# commoncoldwar
Play as an invading Rhinovirus that has infected a human host and must combat the defences that the immune system has rallied. When coming up with the concept for this game I wanted to create an educational experience for the player. I also wanted to do something different then a generic spaceship flying through space. After coming across a video of how the immune system works, I found that this would be a compelling area to explore for a game. Inside our bodies and happening right now, there are these massive wars going on in that we don’t thing about and I thought that this would be an interesting topic to set the game in. 
I chose to develop the game in 2D as I wanted to improve my skills in this area and, since the game would be played on a Mobile device, a 2D game works well on a small screen. I wanted the controls to be intuitive and I feel that Accelerometer and Gyroscope controls to be clunky and very immersion breaking, so I wanted to avoid them completely. I found that using a Joystick works well and is easily picked up. I felt that the game did not need Animations as it was 2D and Movement and Particle Effects did plenty to make the sprites pop in the scene and I did not want to waste time on something that would not be a priority. As for the gameplay, games in this genre are notoriously difficult and I believe this to be why the genre is popular, so I wanted to keep the difficulty there while also providing a fun and not too punishing experience. I had plenty of variety with Enemies and Bosses, with different weapon types and movement patterns. I had enemies that shot homing missiles and large laser attack. I also had a bug where the player could shoot enemy missiles but decided to keep that in the game as it was a fun experience and felt like a sort of joust, where the player had to dodge and pick their time to attack.

I am happy with the result but plan on coming back to the game and creating my own Sprites and Animations. As such, the game is currently in a private state on the Android Store. Please email me for an invitation if you wish to play it.
